It was supposed to be a speech about China. Instead, for more than an hour in the Rose Garden on Tuesday, Donald Trump wove a tapestry of grievance and conspiracy, ranting on subjects ranging from the coronavirus to Democratic opponent Joe Biden to immigration. Much of what he said might sound familiar to anyone who’s watched one of his campaign rallies, which is what the address most closely resembled. But this performance was especially bizarre, with the president pinballing from one barely-formed thought to the next. Sure, there was some of the usual nonsense about how the United States would have fewer coronavirus cases if only it had less testing and how his administration never gets credit for anything and how Biden and the Democrats want to wreak havoc on the country.


The speech, which broke with longstanding tradition in bringing partisan politics to the Rose Garden, seemed to provide a window into the conspiracy-addled mind of the president, who recently bragged that he “aced” a mental acuity test to the “surprise” of his doctors. That boast to Sean Hannity last week was hardly the ringing endorsement of his sanity Trump seemed to think it was. But his speech Tuesday raised further eyebrows even as he continued to suggest, without basis, that Biden is in cognitive decline. “Let him define the word ‘carbon,’” Trump said during a rant criticizing his opponent’s energy policy. “He won’t be able to.”

It was a wild presser, even by Trump standards. And yet, the whole thing was somehow overshadowed by the batshit remarks he made in an interview with CBS News that aired on Wednesday morning. Speaking to Catherine Herridge, Trump once again defended the Confederate flag, describing it as “free speech” unrelated to racism and slavery, and comparing it to the Black Lives Matter movement. Asked why Black Americans are killed by police, Trump responded, “So are white people. What a terrible question to ask. So are white people. More white people, by the way. More white people.” (While “more white people” might be an apt Trump campaign slogan, the assertion is false; studies have shown Black Americans are far more likely to die at the hands of police than their white counterparts.)

To say Trump has gone off the rails would be charitable, as it implies he was on the rails to begin with. But facing overlapping crises, and without campaign rallies to let out the crazy in a safe space, he has seemed to become even more unhinged. Aides, some of whom have speculated that he is actively trying to lose November’s election, have scrambled to get him back in front of supporters. But only 6,000 showed up for his anticipated comeback rally last month in Tulsa, and a New Hampshire event last weekend was abruptly postponed, with concern about low turnout reportedly a factor in the decision. And so, it appears, he’ll have to get his fix from pressers: He would, he told reporters as he wrapped up Tuesday, “be having these conferences again.”
